magnet knife in hand julio garcia sifts
through sand and dirt searching for
treasure already today he's found pieces
of silver and gold so how much is this
worth around forty quid Silas that's
five US dollars but on a good day Julio
might burn 34 times for tomorrow's
minimum wage but there's another
important reason this 50 year-old
chooses to make his living in a garbage
strewn ravine no closet area boys huh I
decided to work here because I can work
on my terms if I want to I leave at noon
or whatever time I choose working for a
company on the other hand you might have
to start at 6:00 in the morning and when
I work security I worked all day and
night the mine as its called
lies a few hundred metres below
Guatemala city's municipal dump the
largest in Central America scavengers
search for bits of metal that get
knocked loose from the trash and end up
on the bottom of a sewage ditch that
runs through the ravine but the same
toxic surge of water that brings riches
can also result in disaster during the
rainy season flash floods are common
here and can be deadly
in 2008 dozens of people were killed
when a mountain of garbage collapsed on
top of them Antonio you pay is one of
those who survived his scars a reminder
of the dangers they face gilma Quintero
you can have community well the
clearance you wanted I was buried
beneath a thick layer of earth it
carried me all the way down there I was
buried really bad god I said if you
really exist help me I don't want to die
I said I want to see my children I want
to see my oldest son but despite almost
losing his life Antonio comes back here
nearly every day working on the streets
of Guatemala City they say is far more
dangerous in a country with few
opportunities for the poor this trade
however dangerous is hard to give up
David Mercer al-jazeera Guatemala City
Guatemala